---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd Area, France
tldr: false
title: I Am A Sponge
---

According to my PhD advisor, **I am a sponge**. What does it mean though? That
is the purpose of this article in which I am going to introduce a sort of
_Sponge Theory_.

![](/images/posts/spongebob.png)


## Learning

One of the main goals of a sponge (the material) is to **sponge an impervious
surface** in order to clean it. A sponge is [especially good at absorbing water
and water-based solutions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sponge_(material\)). In
other words, a sponge is able to _store_ a large amount of liquid into it.

Obviously, as a human, being a sponge means that you are able to **absorb a lot
of information**. You are interested in various topics, and not only technical
ones.
You **read** a lot, everything, all the time. You dig into topics that sound
cool to you. You enjoy learning new things, and you try to keep you up to date,
even on things that you don't use to do.

Also, an interesting point about [sponges as
animals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sponge) is that they **filter the water
they absorb**. That is how they **feed** themselves. It is similar to you when
you sort all the information you get. You certainly don't agree with everything
you read. Being able to distinguish useful information is tricky though, and it
depends on various parameters such as the context in which you are living, your
tastes, your aspirations, etc. But I am digressing...

However, behaving like a sponge is not just about swallowing and filtering
information.


## Sharing

As I said, a sponge is not just about holding water-based solutions. You can
**squeeze sponges in order to get the absorbed water** (please, don't do that
with animals!). That is the second characteristic of a sponge, it is able to
return what it contains.

You love **sharing** things you just learnt, either by talking to your friends,
writing, teaching, tweeting, ... For instance, I read a lot of RSS feeds and
weekly mailing lists, and I tend to [tweet](http://twitter.com/couac) about
things that I consider relevant. [I also
teach](/2013/06/07/teaching-is-the-best-way-to-learn/) time to time.

It is not that different in the
[Open](http://williamdurand.fr/2012/01/16/did-i-tell-you-open-source-was-awesome/)
[Source](http://williamdurand.fr/2013/07/04/on-open-sourcing-libraries/)
world actually. You start by using an Open Source project, and end up by
contributing back (you may not agree with me, that is my very own point of view).
That is probably why I feel so comfortable in this world, but then again, I am
digressing.


## Conclusion

And here we are. Being a sponge is all about **learning** and **reading** a lot,
in other words being interested in various topics, and then **being able to
transmit relevant information**. Is it bad? _No._ I believe that I am lucky, and
you should too. Being **curious** is important, being able to **communicate** is
even more important! No matter how technically strong you are, if you are not
able to explain what you are doing, or if you can't discuss with your teammates,
you are certainly not a **good fit**.

**Be curious**, **learn** new things, then **talk** to your teammates. You will
become more **valuable**, and people will naturally come to you to ask you
advices, or simply to share their new shiny things with you. Become a sponge,
and join us!

Last but not least, remember that [great programmers never stop learning and
teaching](http://37signals.com/svn/posts/3559-my-observations-about-teaching-and-learning-programming).

So, are you a sponge too?
